Previously, I introduced you to
the BLEU score evaluation
metric and it's
modified version.
I used it to assess
the performance of machine
translation models.
I also showed you some
drawbacks that's arise because
that metric ignores semantic
and sentence structure.
In this video, I'll talk
about the ROUGE score,
another performance
metric that tends to
estimate the quality of
machine translation systems.
I'll introduce You now to
a family of metrics
called ROUGE.
It stands for
Recall-Oriented Understudy
of Gisting Evaluation,
which is a mouthful.
But lets you know,
right off the bat,
that it's more
recall-oriented by default.
That means that ROUGE cares
about how much of the human
created references appear in
the candidate translation.
In contrast, BLEU is
precision oriented.
Since you have to
determine how many words
from the candidates
appear on the references.
ROUGE was initially
developed to evaluate
the quality of the
machine summarized texts,
but is also helpful in
assessing the quality
of machine translation.
It works by comparing
the machine candidates against
reference translations
provided by humans.
There are many versions
of the ROUGE score,
but also the one called
ROUGE-N. For the ROUGE-N score,
You have to get the counts of
the n-gram overlaps between
the candidates and the
reference translations,
which is somewhat
similar to what
you have to do for
the BLEU score.
To see the difference
between the two metrics,
I'll show You an example of how
ROUGE-N works with uni-grams.
To get the basic version of
the ROUGE-N score based only on
recall so you must count
word matches between the
reference and the candidates,
and divide by the number
of words in the reference.
If you had multiple references,
you would need to get
a ROUGE-N score using each
reference and get the maximum.
Now, let's go through
the example that
you already solved
for the BLEU score.
Your candidate has the
words I two times,
the word M, and
the word I again,
for a total of four words.
You also have a
reference translation.
Younes said, "I am hungry" and
another slightly
different reference.
He said, "I'm hungry."
Each reference has
five words in total.
You have to count
matches between
the references and the
candidate translations,
similar to what you did
for the BLEU score.
Let's start with the
first reference.
The word Younes, doesn't
match any of the uni-grams
in the candidates,
so you don't add
anything to the counts.
The word said doesn't
match any word and the
candidates either.
The word I, has
multiple matches,
but you need the first one.
For this match, you add
only one to your counts.
The word M has a match in
the candidates so your
increment your counts.
Now, the final word of the
first reference, hungry,
doesn't match any of the
words from the candidates.
You don't add anything
to your counts.
If you repeat this process
for the second reference,
you get a counts equal to 2.
Finally, you divide these
counts by the number of
words in each reference
and get the maximum value,
which for this example
is equal to 0.4.
This basic version of the
ROUGE-N score is based on
recall while the BLEU score you
saw in the previous
lectures is precision.
But why not combine both to get
a metric like an F1 score?
Recall, pun intended,
from your introductory
machine learning courses that
the F1 score is given
by this formula,
two times the product of
precision and recall,
divided by the sum
of both metrics.
You get the following formula,
if you replace precision
by the modified version
of the BLEU score and recall
by the ROUGE-N score.
For this example, you have
a BLEU score equal to 0.5,
which you got in
previous lectures.
You have a ROUGE-N score
equivalent to 0.4,
that you calculated before.
With these values, you will have
an F1 score equal to 4
over 9, close to 0.44.
You have now seen how to compute
the modified BLEU and
the sample ROUGE-N scores
to evaluate your model.
You can view these metrics
like precision and recall.
Therefore, you can use
both to get an F1
score that's could
better assess the performance
of your machine
translation model.
In many applications, you
will see reported and
F-score along with the
BLEU and ROUGE-N metric.
However, you must note that's
all the evaluation metrics
you have seen so far,
don't consider the sentence
structure and semantics,
only accounts for
matching n-grams
between candidates and the
reference translations.
You now have seen how to
compute the modified BLEU
and the simple ROUGE-N scores
to evaluate your model.
You can view these metrics
like precision and recall.
Therefore, you can use both to
get an F1 score that's good,
better assess the performance
of your machine
translation model.
In many applications,
you'll see reported
an F-score along with the
BLEU and the ROUGE-N metrics.
However, you must note
that all the evaluation
metrics you have
seen so far don't consider
the sentence structure
and semantics.
They only account
for matching n-grams
between the candidates and
reference translations.